---
slug: /platform-security
title: Platform Security
---
import Image from '@theme/IdealImage';

# Platform Security

This article provides a basic security overview of the **CHESTER** platform. The article is split into multiple chapters, which describe individual domains.

## Physical Security

For the **CHESTER** hardware device itself, this domain is solely on customer's responsibility. However, the cryptographic keys (e.g., for the **SIM card**) are protected by smartcard platform chips.

:::tip

The **CHESTER mainboard** integrates the **MEMS accelerometer** that can report a device manipulation alert, and the device position can be tracked using the optional **GNSS module**.

:::

## Bluetooth Radio

The **CHESTER** platform uses a certified **Bluetooth Low Energy** (BLE) stack from **Nordic Semiconductor** using their **SoftDevice** implementation. The utilized **System-on-Chip** (nRF52840) supports the BLE specification version 5.3. Access to all exposed Bluetooth **services** and **characteristics** is protected (encrypted and authenticated link) by the standard Bluetooth security mechanisms.

The new connections are possible only to peers who know the pre-provisioned **Bluetooth passkey**. The BLE passkey is a random number generated by **HARDWARIO** and can be changed by the user.

:::tip

The **Bluetooth stack** in the firmware implementation is optional and can be easily disabled.

:::

## LTE Connectivity

The security of the LTE link is provided through the standard mechanism in the **Evolved Packet System** (EPS). The details of the EPS specification can be found in the **3GPP LTE Release 13**.

The device's identity and connectivity services are derived from the **Universal Integrated Circuit Card** (UICC).

In the case of **Vodafone** carrier, **HARDWARIO** uses its own **Access Point Name** (APN) with private IP space. The devices in the APN scope are isolated from public Internet traffic.

:::caution

Although the devices share the same network IP space, the devices cannot communicate with each other. They can only communicate with **HARDWARIO Cloud**.

:::

## Vodafone IPsec Tunnel

Connectivity between **Evolved Packet System** (EPS) and **HARDWARIO Cloud** is secured by the **IPsec** tunnel. The **IPsec** tunnel is defined by the **IETF** standards and uses strong cryptography.

The **re-keying** interval of the established tunnel is less than **60 minutes**.

The **IPsec** tunnel uses IKEv2 (`aes256-sha256-modp2048`).

## HARDWARIO Cloud Security

The **HARDWARIO Cloud** infrastructure operates in the data centers of the **DigitalOcean** cloud provider. All infrastructure runs on the **Ubuntu LTS** Linux server distribution. The **HARDWARIO** team performs regular security audits and maintenance of the complete infrastructure.

The complete cloud infrastructure is architected in a way that tends to eliminate a single point of failure. Every component is backed up by regular **automated snapshots**.

The messages are processed by the **data streaming service**, which enhances data delivery reliability.

## Customer Infrastructure

**HARDWARIO Cloud** provides three services to access device data/device management features:

* **REST API** (backend follows API-first principle)

* Asynchronous **callbacks** (queue of webhooks)

* **Web portal** for users (operates on top of REST API)

All these services operate in public Internet connectivity on top of HTTPS/TLS standards. Access to the services is provided through an **API token**, **Google identity** (OAuth), and **user/password** login.

The API tokens support **access level scoping** for operation authorization.
